Alright, now we need
to start implementing Downshift.
And the way that it works is
we're gonna take the Downshift component
and wrap our entire component that we have here,
except for the SearchStyles in a Downshift component.
And that's going to be a render prop
that then exposes a bunch of props to us.
So we'll go in here and say Downshift.
Lower case s on that.
Inside of that we have we have a render prop.
The render prop payload gives us
a couple things which we can destructure.
So getInputProps
getItemProps
isOpen
That's gonna be if the drop down is currently open.
The inputValue, and the highlightedIndex.
That's gonna tell us which one we're currently on.
And we're going to go through and use all of these
in the actual markup below.
So I'm going to open up
that close of the function and the Downshift.
We're gonna take those two things
and bring them all down right before
the closing SearchStyles.
First thing we're gonna do is take this getInputProps
which we've destructured from Downshift,
and we're going to use that to apply all the props
to our input here.
So we can go here
we'll say getInputProps,
that then is going to be spread into it.
So we'll wrap it in curly brackets and dot dot dot
Then getInputProps is going to take
any of the props that we'd like to apply to it.
So give it an object,
we're gonna take this onChange
move it inside.
Switch it over from a prop to a object.
So that's gonna be colon
and remove the curly brackets here.
We'll also put the type in here.
So say type search.
We need a placeholder.
Just search for an item.
The id is gonna be search.
Class name is going to be,
if it's this.state.loading
we're gonna add a class name of loading.
Otherwise a class name of nothing,
and that's gonna apply some CSS transition to it.
This.state.loading
Otherwise apply nothing.
And we'll give this a refresh make sure it's still working.
This cart opens every time I do a hard refresh,
let's change that real quick.
Open up your with data,
and let's set the default of cart open to be false
That should allow me have the cart close by default.
No if I type a you see that temporarily
we got that yellow glow to it.
That's really helpful because it
shows us when there's an actual loading state on it.
The reason why we use this getInputProps,
is because when we do actually do click on one of these,
it's going to be able to use this getInputProps
to fill the text of this into this search box right here.
So that's really important we'll come back to
that in just a second.
Now what we need to do is go down here to our DropDown.
And we only want to show it when it is in the open state.
Because when somebody clicks on it
and then focuses away,
we want to hide it.
So what we can do is wrap this entire thing
in an isOpen boolean,
'cause that's what we've destructured right here.
So we'll take some curly brackets
and we'll say if it's open then and and,
set of parenthesis, and we'll just pop the entire
DropDown inside of that parenthesis.
And now, when you click into it and type a,
you see that it shows up but if I were
to hit my escape key, it disappears.
If I we're to go back in and type a,
then click outside of it, then it disappears.
So that functionality is what Downshift gives us for free,
we don't have to worry about clicking outside,
or hitting the escape key, or anything like that,
which is awesome.
Next we wanna do is if I were to search
for something, a, and I hit my down keys,
I wanna be able to highlight the current one.
So we're gonna go down to our DropDownItem,
right above key we're going to use another spread,
which is ...getItemProps
and we're simply going to pass the item into that.
Give that a save.
Next when we're looping over items,
we wanna pass down the index of which number it is.
So if I were to type in a right here,
and I hit down, we're gonna know to hit the zero,
and then when I hit down again,
it's gonna know to highlight the second one.
So we need to pass the index when we loop over them.
So cover that in parenthesis and pass the index as well.
And we'll go down to our DropDownItem, right after key,
and we'll just say highlighted is equal to,
and if the index is equal to the highlighted index,
and that highlighted index comes from Downshift itself,
and here we're just making a prop called highlighted,
and if we open up our drop down styles,
you'll see here that we have this DropDownItem,
and then we check if the prop highlighted is
set to true then make it light grey,
otherwise make the border white.
And that should be able to, go in here,
type in a, and know when I hit my down and up arrow keys,
you see I'm able to highlight the current one that we are on
So that's that.
Now if I were to hit enter and click on one of them,
you'll see that the value of it is object object.
And why is that?
Well because when you select an item in Downshift,
by default it's just going to take the entire item,
convert it to a string, and then put it into the input.
But our entire item is an object,
and if you try to convert an object to a string,
then you just get object object.
So, if we go back to our search right here,
and go all the way up to Downshift,
we can specify how items get turned into strings,
with the itemToString property.
And that will give us the item.
And we'll say if the item is equal to null,
then we will return nothing,
Otherwise we're going to just return item.title
And that's what we wanna show up in here.
So now if I just give it a refresh.
Type in a down down hit enter
Then it will automatically take the title,
and put it into that value's input.
The next thing we need to do is
what happens when I actually select one of them, right.
Because we actually need to route to that item.
And that's with the onChange handler directly on Downshift.
And we're going to make a function that's called routeToItem
And in this case it's not going to be this routeToItem
because it doesn't actually have to be
part of this component,
you can just make a function in this file called routeToItem
So let's just do that.
Right above AutoComplete we'll make
a function called routeToItem
It's gonna take in the item.
And let's just console that log the item inside of there.
Open up your dev tools here.
We got a couple errors showing up here,
if you are getting that just clear them out,
we'll make sure we solve them all before.
Type a, oh here it is!
A cross origin error was thrown,
React doesn't seem to have access to the actual
error object in development.
Now is not defined at proxy (mumbles).
Huh, I wonder,
let's fix that right now.
I wonder if that has to do with our persist.
You know in here, what we're doing
is we're running e.persist
Let's take that out real quick and see if that comes back.
Synthetic event is reused for performance reasons.
If you're seeing this, you're accessing
the property target on the released nullified
So, in this case we are debouncing this event,
and then later using the event's value.
And by the time we try to use this value,
we no longer have access to it.
So this is exactly why we have
that event dot persist in there.
But we're getting another issue.
Doesn't seem to be popping up right now,
I'll keep an eye on it just to make sure
it's not giving us any problems.
It might be just because we've developing this right here.
And then the hot reloading is goofing up with the event.
So if you do have those issues just give it a refresh.
We'll make sure that those don't actually happen
as we use the application, and as we test it.
So we were dealing with this routeToItem,
so if I were to type in something
and hit enter on this Rimowa now,
then you see that this item is then
passed to our routeToItem function.
And from here we can actually just go ahead
and change the name with the Router.push
And the path name that we are going to
is going to be forward slash item,
and the query is going to be id of item.id
Yeah, it's because we're editing this
JavaScript here and refreshing it.
Something's goofed up with the hot reloading,
I've definitely seen that before.
Now if I hit enter, you'll see that
it automatically pushes us to
item forward slash that item id
We're able to view the item on its singular page.
So that is the search, let's double check
that we have nothing else left to do.
Last thing we wanna do is if we search
for something that doesn't exist,
we wanna make sure that we actually show
the user that there's nothing found for that.
So we'll go down here, right below this.
If there's no items in state this.state.items.length
and we're not in a loading state,
because there's the possibility
that we're loading but there's no items just yet.
So this.state.loading
then we will simply
return a DropDownItem
that says nothing found for,
we can just interpolate the
actual search term right in there.
With the input value variable
This should not be curly bracket,
it should be a parenthesis.
Now when I search for adidas,
it will tell me nothing found for adidas.
And then we just click outside of that,
and it will clear it out.
Last thing that we want to do here is that,
we get this warning that's showing up from Downshift,
aria-labelledby did not match.
Server gave us downshift-4-label,
client gave us downshift-0-label.
So what happens is that if you have
multiple instances of Downshift,
or if you are rendering something multiple times,
Downshift will just give a unique identifier
to each of their labels.
And when you server render something
and then when you client render something,
it tries to pick up from where you left off.
And when they look different,
in this case it's zero, in this case it's four.
I think if I just refresh it will be,
now it's six, that one's zero, that one's eight,
you see that every single time that I refresh,
it's incrementing it because it has
an internal counter that the server is running,
and then on the client that's being
reset every single time.
So PayPal has on downshift docs,
they just have this reset counter id,
that you can call manually yourself,
and then that will take care of that problem on it.
So what we're going to do is
go up to Downshift and we're going to
import that reset counter id,
then we're going to go right down
to our render function and just manually call that ourselves
so that error goes away, and that's it.
So that is the dropdown,
there's a lot of code going on here.
I find it a little bit confusing,
with all of the render props that we have here.
But if you can break it down into
the multiple pieces like we did,
where you just code up the interface first,
and then code up the actual query with your ApolloConsumer,
and then we just sprinkle on a little bit
of Downshift to handle all of the selecting
and arrows and clicking outside,
it's fairly easy to get your dropdowns up and running.
Hopefully you enjoyed that,
let's move on to the next section of this course.